{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2709
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Team 15: Niharika Aryasomayajula, Lisa D\'92Cruz, Kaniz Mithun, Hemang Sharma, Rohan Sridhar, Poornima Vinjamuri, Qianyi Zhang.\
\
\
Data is the bedrock of data-based projects. Data-based projects (DBPs) leverage one or more datasets to provide actionable insights to support decision-making, enhance efficiency, make predictions, or discover new opportunities that add business value. Deliverables include reports, development and deployment of machine learning models and algorithms, or business improvement suggestions. Data quality, accuracy, and availability are thus critical for the success of DBPs. DBPs face unique challenges, such as ensuring accurate and comprehensive data collection, addressing unclear or missing data in raw datasets, segregating training and test data, and incorporating scalability to handle massive datasets from diverse sources like sensors, social media, and customer transactions.\
\
 \
\
The data lifecycle in DBPs encompasses various stages like collection, storage, processing, cleaning, analysis, modeling, evaluation, visualization, and communication. They typically follow an iterative approach, employing algorithmic and statistical techniques for experimentation and refinement toward a solution that works. DBPs must navigate ethical and privacy implications and comply with data privacy and cybersecurity regulations.\
\
 \
\
Given their distinctive features, data-based projects differ from non-data projects in the following ways. They call for specialized skills, techniques, software, and hardware. They are subject to rapid developments in the data science and analytics fields that, in turn, lead to constant changes in tools, methods, and best practices. Dnyanesh Walwadkar argues that project management in a data environment needs a different mindset. Whereas traditional, process-driven project management seeks to reduce uncertainty and control the scope, costs, and schedules, DBPs call for the scientific method of experimentation and exploration of ambiguity and the unknown in search of new knowledge [1].\
\
 \
\
Nonetheless, DBPs are similar to other projects. They are temporary, i.e., with specific start and end points. They must align with business objectives and understand the organizational environment. They require stakeholder management and communication. Hence, typical project management techniques remain applicable: planning, scheduling, executing, performance tracking, and project closure. Both types of projects face resource allocation and risk management challenges to ensure that projects are on time, within budget, and in line with expectations.\
\
 \
\
References\
\
[1] Walwadkar, D. (2022, May 7). Data science lifecycle vs traditional project management. https://medium.com/codex/data-science-lifecycle-vs-traditional-project-management-8d0350d283ce\
\
 \
\
Project Management Institute Inc. (PMI). (2013). A Guide to the Project Management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK \'ae Guide) \'96 5th Edition. Project Management Institute, Inc. (PMI).}